The configuration file is now generated by the configurator modifying the model in build.sbt-dist

This is for reference

 `wcsSites in ThisBuild` 

Names of the  sites you are currently working on with AgileSites. It  is a comma-separated list of site names.

`wcsVersion in ThisBuild` 

to the version of your Fatwire/WCS. Currently it can be 11.1.1.6.0 and 11.1.1.8.0. Also works with 7.5.0 but there is no support in the API for 7.5.0 so this version is unsupported.

`wcsHome in ThisBuild`

Points to the home WebCenter Sites application directory

`wcsShared in ThisBuild`

Points to the WebCenter Sites  shared folder 

`wcsWebapp in ThisBuild`
 
Points to the web application folder of the Content Server  application (usually named cs)

`wcsCsdtJar in ThisBuild`

Points to the location of your CSDT jar. 
Location of this file may vary, in JSK it is located in the `wcsHome` folder, in the full installations it is usually stored in a subdirectory.

It is recommended to download the latest patch from the support site where the latest jar can be found.

`wcsUrl in ThisBuild` 

Points to the url to access content server.

Please DO NOT include a slash at the end.
Include the protocol (http or https), the port and the  path to ContentServer (for example /cs ).

This url must  expose Content Server servlets (ContentServer, CatalogManager), so it is generally available only in development (on live site, the /cs/Satellite/site prefix is added by an Apache Proxy so the '/cs/' is inaccessible)
